we'll start our top 10 with the smallest
plane in the world
the star bumblebee it was built
specifically to set a world record and
get this title
its wingspan is smaller than the average
person's height
and the length of the plane is the same
as a regular sedan
but this baby can surprise you its
maximum speed
is similar to a supercar 190 miles per
hour
still it has only risen in the air a few
times
and it even had to make an emergency
landing but
no one was injured and the restored
plane was given to a private collection
by the way the cost of building one star
bumblebee
was about ten thousand dollars so it was
really a regular sedan
among the planes one that could only
carry one person
next on the list is a cessna 172
this airplane is also a record breaker
not for its size this time
but for the number of built units to
date
more than 45 000 aircraft have been
built
and it remains in production since 1956.
as for its size its length can be
compared with the length of a limousine
and the wingspan is a little less than a
school bus
far fewer people can board it though
only the pilot
plus three passengers in 1959
this aircraft set a world record for the
duration of a refueling flight
two pilots took off at a las vegas
airport and landed there
in 64 days 22 hours and 19 minutes
without refueling the latest cessna
model can fly
800 miles it's like the distance from
san francisco to las vegas and back
we move on to larger and more powerful
aircraft
embraer legacy 600 it's slightly longer
than a subway car
but much more comfortable figures after
all
it's a private aircraft worth 25 million
dollars
but if you want one then be prepared to
pay an additional 500 thousand to one
million dollars a year
just for plane maintenance
now this plane is similar to a beluga
whale in its shape
actually that's what it's called airbus
a300
600 st beluga
it's designed to carry aircraft parts
and external cargo
it's also transported space shuttles it
looks like
a mother airplane carrying her baby
beluga
was the one who transported the columbus
module for the iss
its length is like two baseball fields
and almost the same wingspan
its cargo bay is so big that it can
easily accommodate the fuselage of
another plane amazingly
it only takes two people to fly such a
huge machine
but despite the size of its cargo
compartment beluga can lift no more than
47 tons
or 30 hippos whatever they prefer on
board
its cost is about 180 million euros
it's almost like a fleet of 600 cessnas
boeing 787 dreamliner it's one of the
most efficient aircraft in the world
this airplane holds the record for the
longest flight without refueling
in march 2020 it flew from papierte
to paris the plane flew without landing
for almost
16 hours and covered a distance of over
9 700 miles
this is like the distance from new york
to los angeles
four times the cost of this big guy
is estimated at 300 million dollars
this is like 30 of the most expensive
rolls-royces
or 30 million cinema tickets
hughes h4 hercules this is actually a
flying boat
and it was made of wood it's the biggest
ever built and it had an enormous
wingspan
321 feet to get this thing in the air
eight propeller engines were used each
with 3 000 horsepower
and even though this water monster was
built in 1947
it could lift more cargo than the modern
airbus beluga
hercules could lift a weight of 59 tons
that's like a modern tank or about 30
suvs
but originally it was built to transport
about 750 people
at a time still the payload and maximum
speed of this aircraft remain an issue
this wooden guy has only made one flight
in its life
it climbed to a height of about 65 feet
and flew 1.2 miles
above los angeles harbor despite this
engineer howard hughes kept this monster
in working condition for almost 30 years
spending about 1 million dollars per
year
airbus a380 this is the largest
passenger plane
in the world it has two decks and can
accommodate
about 850 passengers it's like a
population of a small village
all on board one airplane to accommodate
this many passengers
it has an impressive size its length is
almost as much as a soccer field
as is its wingspan and its height is
more than a seven
story building on top of all this
the airbus can travel incredible
distances without refueling
it can take off in iceland and land on
the tip of south america
the only disadvantage of a380 is its
price
445 million dollars with this money
you can buy four private islands in the
british virgin islands
a saudi prince once bought one of these
and modified it into a private aircraft
now it looks like an expensive mansion
or hotel inside
it has become the largest and most
expensive private jet
it's estimated to cost about 500 million
dollars
oh and by the way just to take off this
giant needs a runway
of almost 10 000 feet so not all
airports in the world can take an airbus
a380
scaled composites model 351 stratolaunch
an unusual name for an aircraft but its
appearance
is even more bizarre this aircraft fears
the title of the longest wingspan
in aviation history of all time 385 feet
this is more than the length of a soccer
field plus a limousine
the pilot co-pilot and flight engineer
are in the right fuselage cockpit
the cockpit of the left fuselage is used
as a storage unit
six powerful engines help this giant
take off
and eight racks with a total number of
28 wheels
helped the big guy to land strata launch
was designed to launch
pegasus rockets from it but now it's
going to be used to launch hypersonic
flights
well whatever its purpose pilots will
have to be careful
because so far there's only one strata
launch model 351 in the world
jumbo jet or boeing 747
this is the world's first long-haul
double-deck aircraft
this baby held the title of the heaviest
and most capacious aircraft
for 36 years until airbus a380 appeared
its wingspan is more than the length of
a hockey field
and its length is 250 feet which is
equal to the height of 15 giraffes
this aircraft set a record for the
number of passengers on one flight
during a rescue operation in ethiopia
there were 1086 people
on board the 747 this plane
was also used to transport the president
of the united states
or his first lady in this case the
aircraft was assigned a call sign
air force one or air force one foxtrot
and the cargo version of this plane was
used for transportation of the space
shuttle
from reserve airfields to the place of
its launch at cape canaveral
antonov an-225 maria is the heaviest
aircraft
ever built it also has the largest
wingspan of
any aircraft and operational service the
distance between the tips of its wings
is almost like the length of a soccer
field and its body length
is 275 feet this is like six school
buses in a row
naturally it's a power lifter among
planes
in 2009 antonov was listed in the
guinness book of records
for lifting the heaviest mono cargo in
aviation history
187 tons that's like
1 000 of the smallest aircraft in the
world the star bumblebee
or four boeing 737s
but the absolute record for antonov's
lifting capacity
is 253 tons this is like half the
tallest building in the world
the burj khalifa well the records of
this aircraft are quite long
since its first flight the am-225 has
set
240 world records this is a unique case
in aviation
and is in fact a record itself
this thing is not exactly an airplane
but it deserves a place on our list
the caspian sea monster it was an
experimental wing ship
that means it used air force reflected
from the surface of the earth or
water to stay in the air formally
it was a ship as it could fly at an
altitude
of only a few meters but it looked more
like an amphibian
and only pilots could fly it a pretty
complicated system
right for a long time it was the
heaviest plane in the world
when it was empty it weighed 240 tons
that's like 60 elephants and it took 10
engines to get this thing in the air
five on each side but it still had
enough speed to get from new york to
washington
in half an hour